
                            Apache 1.3.14 Released
                                       
   The Apache Software Foundation and The Apache Server Project are
   pleased to announce the release of version 1.3.14 of the Apache HTTP
   server.  Version 1.3.13 was never released.
   
   This version of Apache is primarily a security fix and bug fix
   release, but there are a few new features and improvements. A summary
   of the new features is given at the end of this document.
   
   We consider Apache 1.3.14 to be the best version of Apache available
   and we strongly recommend that users of older versions, especially of
   the 1.1.x and 1.2.x family, upgrade as soon as possible. No further
   releases will be made in the 1.2.x family.
   
   Apache 1.3.14 is available for download from
   
     http://httpd.apache.org/dist/
     
   Please see the CHANGES_1.3 file in the same directory for a full list
   of changes.
   
   Binary distributions are available from
   
     http://httpd.apache.org/dist/binaries/
     
   As of Apache 1.3.12 binary distributions contain all standard Apache
   modules as shared objects (if supported by the platform) and include
   full source code. Installation is easily done by executing the
   included install script. See the README.bindist and INSTALL.bindist
   files for a complete explanation. Please note that the binary
   distributions are only provided for your convenience and current
   distributions for specific platforms are not always available.
   
   The source and binary distributions are also available via any of the
   mirrors listed at
   
     http://www.apache.org/mirrors/
     
   For an overview of new features in 1.3 please see
   
     http://httpd.apache.org/docs/new_features_1_3.html
     
   In general, Apache 1.3 offers several substantial improvements over
   version 1.2, including better performance, reliability and a wider
   range of supported platforms, including Windows 95/98 and NT (which
   fall under the "Win32" label).
   
   Apache is the most popular web server in the known universe; over half
   of the servers on the Internet are running Apache or one of its
   variants.
   
   IMPORTANT NOTE FOR WIN32 USERS: Over the years, many users have come
   to trust Apache as a secure and stable server. It must be realized
   that the current Win32 code has not yet reached the levels of the Unix
   version, but is of acceptable quality. Any Win32 stability or security
   problems do not impact, in any way, Apache on other platforms.
   
                          Apache 1.3.14 Major changes
                                       
   The security fixes are:
     * A problem with the Rewrite module, mod_rewrite, allowed access to
       any file on the web server under certain circumstances
     * The handling of Host: headers in mass virtual hosting
       configurations, mod_vhost_alias, could allow access to any file on
       the server
     * If a cgi-bin directory is under the document root, the source to
       the scripts inside it could be sent if using mass virtual hosting
       
   The main new features include:
     * Support for a directory-based configuration system. If any of the
       configuration directives point to directories instead of files,
       all files in that directory (and in subdirectories) will be also
       parsed as configuration files
     * Support name-based virtual hosting without needing to specify an
       IP address in the Apache configuration file. This enables sites
       that use dynamic IP addresses to support name-based virtual
       hosting as well as allowing identical machines to share a
       configuration file, say in a load-balanced cluster
     * The SetEnvIf and BrowserMatch range of directives are now able to
       be used in .htaccess files.
     * Administrators who are nervous about their full server version
       details being public can use the new keyword 'ProductOnly' in the
       ServerTokens directive. This keyword forces the server to only
       return the string "Apache" as the server version.
     * The new digest authentication module, mod_auth_digest has had a
       number of fixes and upgrades applied
       
   Selected new features that relate to windows platforms:
     * The project files have been converted to work with Microsoft
       Visual C 6.0
     * The DBM package "sdbm" is now bundled with Apache
     * Windows 95 and 98 can now benefit from an emulation of the NT
       services, including install and uninstall options. The Apache
       server therefore can start when the OS loads and will not stop if
       the current user logs off for example
     * A comprehensive review of the Windows documentation has been
       performed.
     * Preparations for allowing Apache to be built using the free
       Borland bcc 5.5 compiler
       
   Selected new features relating to other platforms:
     * Support for the new FreeBSD accept filters feature. This feature
       postpones the requirement for a child process to handle a new
       connection until a HTTP request has arrived, therefore increasing
       the number of connections that a given number of child processes
       can handle
     * A number of alterations for the MPE platform including fixing
       error reporting, updating the DSO code to be compatible with a
       recent OS patch, refining user and group management, and initial
       support for the proxy module
     * The default serialised accept has been changed for AIX 4.3 to
       provide a substantial performance improvement on multiple CPU
       machines serving large numbers of concurrent clients
     * DSO support added for BS2000 and OS/390 USS platforms
     * A directory layout for Solaris 8 has been added to the
       configuration system
     * The proxy module mod_proxy has been patched so that it can be
       built on BeOS 4.5.2
     * Updated configuration script to allow building on IBM's IA-64
       version of AIX
