
                   Apache HTTP Server 1.3.33 Released

   The Apache Software Foundation and The Apache HTTP Server Project are
   pleased to announce the release of version 1.3.33 of the Apache HTTP
   Server ("Apache").  This Announcement notes the significant changes
   in 1.3.33 as compared to 1.3.31 (1.3.32 was not formally released).
   The Announcement is also available in German and Japanese from:

        http://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/Announcement.txt.de
        http://www.apache.org/dist/httpd/Announcement.txt.ja

   This version of Apache is principally a bug and security fix release.
   A partial summary of the bug fixes is given at the end of this document.
   A full listing of changes can be found in the CHANGES file.  Of
   particular note is that 1.3.33 addresses and fixes 2 potential
   security issues:

     o CAN-2004-0940 (cve.mitre.org)
       Fix potential buffer overflow with escaped characters in
       SSI tag string.

     o CAN-2004-0492 (cve.mitre.org)
       Reject responses from a remote server if sent an invalid
       (negative) Content-Length.

   We consider Apache 1.3.33 to be the best version of Apache 1.3 available
   and we strongly recommend that users of older versions, especially of
   the 1.1.x and 1.2.x family, upgrade as soon as possible.  No further
   releases will be made in the 1.2.x family.

   Apache 1.3.33 is available for download from:
   
       http://httpd.apache.org/download.cgi

   This service utilizes the network of mirrors listed at:

       http://www.apache.org/mirrors/

   Please consult the CHANGES_1.3 file for a full list of changes.

   As of Apache 1.3.12 binary distributions contain all standard Apache
   modules as shared objects (if supported by the platform) and include
   full source code.  Installation is easily done by executing the
   included install script.  See the README.bindist and INSTALL.bindist
   files for a complete explanation.  Please note that the binary
   distributions are only provided for your convenience and current
   distributions for specific platforms are not always available.  Win32
   binary distributions are based on the Microsoft Installer (.MSI)
   technology.  While development continues to make this installation method
   more robust, questions should be directed to the
   news:comp.infosystems.www.servers.ms-windows newsgroup.

   For an overview of new features introduced after 1.2 please see
   
   http://httpd.apache.org/docs/new_features_1_3.html

   In general, Apache 1.3 offers several substantial improvements over
   version 1.2, including better performance, reliability and a wider
   range of supported platforms, including Windows NT and 2000 (which
   fall under the "Win32" label), OS2, Netware, and TPF threaded
   platforms.

   Apache is the most popular web server in the known universe; over half
   of the servers on the Internet are running Apache or one of its
   variants.

   IMPORTANT NOTE FOR APACHE USERS:   Apache 1.3 was designed for Unix OS
   variants.  While the ports to non-Unix platforms (such as Win32, Netware
   or OS2) are of an acceptable quality, Apache 1.3 is not optimized for
   these platforms.  Security, stability, or performance issues on these
   non-Unix ports do not generally apply to the Unix version, due to
   software's Unix origin.

   Apache 2.0 has been structured for multiple operating systems from its 
   inception, by introducing the Apache Portability Library and MPM modules.
   Users on non-Unix platforms are strongly encouraged to move up to 
   Apache 2.0 for better performance, stability and security on their
   platforms.

                     Apache 1.3.33 Major changes

  Security vulnerabilities

     * CAN-2004-0940 (cve.mitre.org)
       Fix potential buffer overflow with escaped characters in
       SSI tag string.

     * CAN-2004-0492 (cve.mitre.org)
       Reject responses from a remote server if sent an invalid
       (negative) Content-Length.

  New features

   New features that relate to specific platforms:

     * Win32: Improve error reporting after a failed attempt to spawn a 
       piped log process or rewrite map process.

   New features that relate to all platforms:

     * Added new compile-time flag: UCN_OFF_HONOR_PHYSICAL_PORT.
       It controls how UseCanonicalName Off determines the port value if
       the client doesn't provide one in the Host header. If defined during
       compilation, UseCanonicalName Off will use the physical port number
       to generate the canonical name. If not defined, it tries the current
       Port value followed by the default port for the current scheme.

  Bugs fixed

   The following noteworthy bugs were found in Apache 1.3.31 (or earlier)
   and have been fixed in Apache 1.3.33:

     * mod_rewrite: Fix query string handling for proxied URLs. PR 14518.
                                                                                
     * mod_rewrite: Fix 0 bytes write into random memory position.
       PR 31036.

     * mod_digest: Fix nonce string calculation since 1.3.31 which
       would force re-authentication for every connection if
       AuthDigestRealmSeed was not configured.  PR 30920.

     * Fix trivial bug in mod_log_forensic that caused the child
       to seg fault when certain invalid requests were fired at it with
       forensic logging is enabled.  PR 29313.

     * No longer breaks mod_dav, frontpage and others.  Repair a patch
       in 1.3.31 which prevented discarding the request body for requests
       that will be keptalive but are not currently keptalive. PR 29237.
