                                 Apache
                             Version 1.2 (and up)

What is it?
-----------

Apache is an HTTP server designed as a plug-in replacement for the NCSA
server version 1.3 (or 1.4). It fixes numerous bugs in the NCSA server and
includes many frequently requested new features, and has an API which
allows it to be extended to meet users' needs more easily.

Documentation
-------------

The documentation available as of the date of this release is also
included, in HTML format, in the htdocs/manual/ directory. For the
most up-to-date documentation, visit us on the WWW, at
<URL:http://www.apache.org/>.

Installation
------------

Unless you grabbed a binary distribution of Apache, you must compile
it for your specific platform.  In order to compile it, you must set
compile-time options (in particular, system type) for your system by
editing a Configuration file, run a script which generates a Makefile
and a small piece of C code, and then compile it.

For instructions on compilation, see the file 'INSTALL' in the src/ directory.

After compilation, you will have a binary called "httpd" in the src/
directory.  If you received a binary distribution of apache, you
should have this file already.

The next step is to edit the configuration files for the server.  In
the subdirectory called "conf" you should find distribution versions
of the three configuration files: srm.conf-dist, access.conf-dist, and
httpd.conf-dist.  Copy them to srm.conf, access.conf, httpd.conf
respectively.

First edit httpd.conf.  This sets up general attributes about the
server - the port number, the user it runs as, etc.  Next edit the
srm.conf file - this sets up the root of the document tree, special
functions like server-parsed HTML or internal imagemap parsing, etc.
Finally, edit the access.conf file to at least set the base cases of
access. Documentation for all of these is located at
<URL:http://www.apache.org/docs/>.

Finally, make a call to httpd, with a -f to the full path to the
httpd.conf file.  I.e., the common case:

  /usr/local/etc/apache/src/httpd -f /usr/local/etc/apache/conf/httpd.conf

And voila!  The server should be running.

By default the srm.conf and access.conf files are located by name - to
specifically call them by other names, use the AccessConfig and
ResourceConfig directives in httpd.conf.

The Latest Version
------------------

Details of the latest version are in the apache project page (above).

Licensing
---------

Please see the file called LICENSE.

Acknowledgments
----------------

We wish to acknowledge the following copyrighted works that make up
portions of the Apache software:

Portions of this software were developed at the National Center for
Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.

This software contains code derived from the RSA Data Security Inc. MD5
Message-Digest Algorithm, including various modifications by Spyglass Inc.,
Carnegie Mellon University, and Bell Communications Research, Inc. 
(Bellcore).

This package contains software written and copyrighted by Henry Spencer. 
Please see the file called src/regex/COPYRIGHT. 
